Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be doing a challenge.
So this challenge is going to be using the prompt again that's going to be using a raise.
So we're going to start out with a basic array and we're going to ask the user to see if they want to
remove a particular value from the array.
So this time would set up rate and we're going to do the same rate.
Really simple.
We're going to just use a bunch of numbers.
So that way we can create a whole bunch of values in there and to do this really easily.
So actually I shouldn't repeat those values.
So that's pretty good.
And just to make it more interesting we'll sort that every and then console log out every day.
What we have now.
So we now we have a nicely sorted array.
And I know I just have to throw in that sort it's actually not necessary within this exercise but I
just didn't get a chance earlier to show you how it sorts numbers.
So we're able to sort it in a number of ways.
And also let's start in a few strings as well.
So you can get a better idea of how things work for arrays.
So we see that it sorts numbers first.
So incrementing from 1 all the way to 77 then starts with the characters.
So C is before D and so on.
So that's what it does the sort.
So going back to the task at hand and this is where we want to have another prompt.
So I'm going to start with Q and we're going to do a prompt and the question this time what do you want
to remove.
And so we're asking the user what they want to remove.
And next we need to find out the value of the index.
So let's call it finder.
And this one we're going to take array and we're going to get the value index of
and this is where we're sending that response back from the prompt.
So we're going to take a look and we're going to see if index is exists and if it actually exists then
we know that we can splice and we can remove out that item out of the array.
If it doesn't exist then we're not able to remove that.
So we've got that value of Finder there.
And as Next let's do another one we'll call it Orient remover zealous Finder.
This one's the actual remover.
So we get that array.
We're specifying that we're splicing that particular value and we're splicing finder
and were returning were only slight splicing one.
So whatever the value of the finder is the Index we're going to splice that.
And we're going to remove it.
And then lastly let's cancel log out our history
and let's refresh it.
So what do you want to remove from that array.
Let's remove that cat and we see that now when we remove that then we've got that item it's removed
out of the array.
So you've got the array being listed out again.
So again this time let's try something that's not in that array.
And this is going to remove that dog because what's happening here is that when you show you the value
of Finder it is negative 1.
So where we don't have a value of Finder and what it's doing here is it's just returning a value of
negative 1 so it's going starting here and it's doing a negative one and that's why it's taking dog
out of the equation because it doesn't have the last item.
And we see here that the last item is also indicative of what we're specifying here.
So we need to add in something else as well.
And this is going to get a lot easier once we introduce conditional statements which is coming up in
upcoming lessons.
But for now let's use what we've already learned and that's the terrine ary operator.
So let's take a look and let's sign a new value so maybe I'll just call this one V and we're going to
take a look and we're going to see if Finder is greater than negative 1 then we're going to use whatever
the value of Finder is and if it's not so we'll just use the value finder here.
And if it's not then we need to do something else here and in this case we were not able to actually
splice anything out.
So maybe lets do something like 11 or something like that and see if that works or we have to do the
length of the array.
So let's try that one sorry length.
So let's go back and refresh it.
So now entering something that doesn't exist in there and still taken out that last item.
So this is going to be a difficult part because where automatically always removing that last one.
So this isn't this isn't working.
And I know we're limited to this territory OPERATOR So there is actually a solution.
So instead of creating and setting that value finder and then doing it within remover Lets just get
that value because Russia returning a value from that method.
So we're able to do that and we're actually able to put something from the.
So now we can also over here we can set this to be
let's say this to be false.
And now whenever we we run this looks console log the value of v and refresh the page.
So now it's entering something that doesn't exist in the array and we get returned back false.
And now let's enter something that does exist in the array and we see we get that item return and it
actually removes it from the array.
So that's the solution and I know this was a little bit of a workaround.
So this one did get a little bit more complex but we do see how we can use multiple statements and start
combining them in order to apply even more logic into our application process.
So the next lesson we're going to look at multi-dimensional arrays and then that sounds really cool.
And I guarantee you it is.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.
It's going to actually extend what we can do with arrays and coming up in the next lesson.